Hackerrank: Student Topper Finder.md, before:

# # 🔢 Hackerrank:# 🏆 Student Topper Finder

This Python program helps determine the **top-performing student** based on the total marks across five subjects. It uses a dictionary to store each student’s marks and identifies the topper using simple calculations and built-in functions.

---

## 🎯 Aim

To maintain a dictionary of students with their marks in five subjects, calculate their **total marks**, store them in a new dictionary, and identify the **student with the highest total (topper)**.

---

## 🧠 Algorithm

1. **Start** the program.
2. Create a dictionary `student_marks`:
   - Keys → Student names.
   - Values → List of marks in five subjects.
3. Initialize an empty dictionary `total_marks`.
4. Loop through `student_marks`:
   - Calculate the total marks using `sum()`.
   - Store the result in `total_marks`.
5. Use `max()` on `total_marks` to find the student with the highest total.
6. Print:
   - The `total_marks` dictionary.
   - The **topper's name and score**.

---

## 💻 PROGRAM:
ADD CODE HERE

## OUTPUT

## RESULT

Commit message:

Update Hackerrank: Student Topper Finder.md

Hackerrank: Student Topper Finder.md, after:

# # 🔢 Hackerrank:# 🏆 Student Topper Finder

This Python program helps determine the **top-performing student** based on the total marks across five subjects. It uses a dictionary to store each student’s marks and identifies the topper using simple calculations and built-in functions.

---

## 🎯 Aim

To maintain a dictionary of students with their marks in five subjects, calculate their **total marks**, store them in a new dictionary, and identify the **student with the highest total (topper)**.

---

## 🧠 Algorithm

1. **Start** the program.
2. Create a dictionary `student_marks`:
   - Keys → Student names.
   - Values → List of marks in five subjects.
3. Initialize an empty dictionary `total_marks`.
4. Loop through `student_marks`:
   - Calculate the total marks using `sum()`.
   - Store the result in `total_marks`.
5. Use `max()` on `total_marks` to find the student with the highest total.
6. Print:
   - The `total_marks` dictionary.
   - The **topper's name and score**.

---

## 💻 PROGRAM:
```

marks = eval(input())
totals = {name: sum(scores) for name, scores in marks.items()}
print(totals)
top_score = max(totals.values())
for name, total in totals.items():
    if total == top_score:
        print(f"Topper is: {name} with marks = {total}")
```

## OUTPUT
<img width="1100" height="185" alt="447822712-ac8606c0-9694-4c4e-82fb-37778d9cc1ce" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/85169b2c-4aee-4d81-a32e-63020ee73017" />


## RESULT
Thus, the program has been executed successfully.
